so let's really dig in and make sure we
understand the difference between a
static and an instance method so what do
we know so far
right well we know that there exist
static methods which have the word
static in their declaration and non
static methods also known as instance
methods which do not yeah we're done so
static methods are invoked using the
class name so we know for example if we
want to call a make noise method that
was declared like this we would say dog
great ethereal sky dog I would like you
to make a noise and so it will instant
methods by contrast are invoked using an
instance name so I might say Maya the
dog please make noise right so I create
a specific dog and they say Maya make
your noise and an important distinction
between them is the static variable plus
our static methods they cannot access my
instance variables I couldn't say system
dot out dot print line weight and pounds
because in this case there is no me
there's just the idea of dogs trying to
make the noise and over here it's a
specific dog okay so why what good is a
static method it seems like the way I've
described it the non static methods are
simply more powerful but we'll see that
there is a natural place for a static
method so for example some classes there
just never instantiated for example the
math class the way we'll usually or I
mean yeah the way we would use the round
method of the math class is I would say
mathematics please round five point six
which just makes more sense than saying
let's create a specific math whatever
that would mean and then use Em's round
right so static methods they have their
place that are more natural
now sometimes classes can actually have
a mix you can have a class that has both
static and non-static methods and what
we'll do is we'll build one right here
but I think it'll be more interesting if
we jump in live so
so let's open up our dog glass and let's
say our goal is we want to be able to
compare two dogs so I'm gonna make
another dog be to 100 and I want to
compare these dogs so I might do
something like bigger equals and now I
want to say dog got max dog bd2 okay now
the idea here is that I don't want
either of the dogs to be doing the
judging I want you know an expert of
dogs last the the god version of dog to
the judgment and in that case it's
pretty natural so let's try it out in
this case we want to make a method
called max dog and it's supposed to take
two dogs b1 and b2 and if t1 is bigger
than d2 we're gonna rip no sorry if v1
dot weight in pounds is bigger than d2
that weight in pounds will return d1
otherwise we'll return due to now this
is not done yet so don't want you to do
is think for a moment what is missing
here other than obvious so what's
missing there's two things so one of
them is this needs a return type and the
other is static because in this case
we're invoking the method using the
class name so let's try doing dog
launcher see if everything works can we
try running it probably nothing
yeah nothing happens so we'll make the
bigger dog make a sound and let's change
the numbers so we actually know what's
going on it's at fifteen and a hundred
so in this case if it's working properly
we should get a look and a deed we get a
woof
so you might ask yourself couldn't I
also make a non-static version like
public dog max dog dog b2 and then I
could compare my own self and yes you
could you could say in this case if my
weight in pounds is greater than d two's
weight in pounds
then return and in this particular
instance I want to return a reference to
my own self so we'll use that keyword
that I very briefly alluded to earlier
and say return this otherwise we'll
return v2 now for clarity you can also
end this so that a reader of your code
might say okay it's my weight in pounds
because this is a non static method so a
specific dog is going to do the judging
in an exercise you might do now is try
and ponder how would I call that method
okay so what would the call look like it
might look like this dog the bigger
equals d-max dog b2 and so in that case
this dog does the judging to see am i
bigger and it decides to know and so
this method will return the larger dog
so it's up to you like do you feel
comfortable having dogs judge themselves
against other dogs
where'd you rather have an impartial
judge that will just feel more
aesthetically correct to you either
approach is fine either will work
perfectly just a matter of your dog
related moral aesthetics so one last
thing I want to bring up in terms of
static we're mostly talking about
methods but just as a quick note we can
actually also make static variables so
these are interesting because their
properties that apply to all dogs and
they all share that variable so for
example we might say all dogs have a so
called they have a scientific name
should be a Canis familiaris assuming my
spelling and capitalization is right and
so what that will do is it will
establish that all dogs have the same
scientific name so I can then go through
and say system dot out dot print line
the scientific name and so if I run this
should hopefully get Canis familiaris if
I print out the other dog
I get Canis familiaris though I would
argue that both of these are bad style
and then if you're ever accessing a
static variable should really probably
only be using I mean in any case I can
think of the actual class so instead of
saying hey Maya the dog what's your
scientific name I'll say what is the
scientific name for all dogs so while
this syntax works I don't think it's
ever really useful and it's probably
just confusing and might lead you to do
bad things so what I'm gonna saying is
if you ever have a static variable let's
use the class name as a nice
straightforward way of making sure we
know exactly what we're dealing with
okay so if we look again at this method
this is what we've just built but I
think it's a little more interesting in
this bigger context and so I'll note
that a class may have a mix of static
and non-static members and a member is
either an instance variable or a method
okay so a static member you should
access it using the class name right so
if I'm saying what is a dog scientific
name I would use this notation if I want
to call the static version of max dog I
would use dog max top you can use an
instance variable but again I think it's
confusing so I would say that static
members you really really should strive
to use dog I mean what I mean by that is
yes this technically works but please do
this I'll just make our lives easier
well your life is here non-static
members by contrast you cannot invoke
them using the class name
you cannot say great sky dog please make
noise if the method is declared as
follows like if I have here and dog I
can't call dog max dog it'll say cannot
call a non static method from static
make no actually what will it say no no
let's find out what happens if we delete
this method
do jog launcher and then say yeah okay
in this case max dog it gets confused he
gives us an error message that's not
particularly useful sorry a little bit
of a digression but non-static members
if you only have a non-static version of
a method you cannot use the class name
to make noise it just doesn't make sense
and it's just not what static method is
and lastly if you have a static method
and you want to access some kind of
instance variables so for example this
method here max dog if we wanted to
actually access an instance variable we
have to specify which instance we can't
take this away because if we do we're
asking about my instance variables but
this great the great sky dog he does not
have a weight in pounds he transcends
petty things like particular sizes okay
so at this point if you're new to static
versus non-static it's probably a little
confusing right I mean that's just how
these programming things go you probably
have questions that I haven't answered
so I encourage you to try out the code
link that's on the website experiment
with the code but especially project
zero will give you a chance to really
deeply look into this issue and see how
static non static and all this place
together